ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore: Add resource (#364)
elastic/terraform-provider-ec: docs/resources/ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore.md

---
page_title: "Elastic Cloud: ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore"
description: |-
  Provides an Elastic Cloud Deployment Elasticsearch keystore resource, which allows creating and updating Elasticsearch Keystore  settings.
---

# Resource: ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore

> Provides an Elastic Cloud Deployment Elasticsearch keystore resource, which allows creating and updating Elasticsearch keystore  settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides an Elastic Cloud Deployment Elasticsearch keystore resource, which allows you to create and update Elasticsearch keystore settings.
```

Elasticsearch keystore settings can be created and updated through this resource, **each resource represents a single Elasticsearch Keystore setting**. After adding a key and its secret value to the keystore, you can use the key in place of the secret value when you configure sensitive settings.

> ~> **Note on Elastic keystore settings** This resource offers weaker consistency guarantees and will not detect and update keystore setting values that have been modified outside of the scope of Terraform, usually referred to as _drift_. For instance, examine the following scenario:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Note on Elastic keystore settings** This resource offers weaker consistency guarantees and will not detect and update keystore setting values that have been modified outside of the scope of Terraform, usually referred to as _drift_. For example, consider the following scenario:
```

    1. A keystore setting is created using this resource.
    2. The keystore setting's value is modified to a different value using the Elasticsearch Service API.

>     3. Running `terraform apply` will fail to detect the changes and will not update the keystore setting to the value defined in the terraform configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Running `terraform apply` fails to detect the changes and does not update the keystore setting to the value defined in the terraform configuration.
```

  To force the keystore setting to the value it is configured to hold, you may want to taint the resource and force its recreation.

> Before you create Elasticsearch keystore settings, be sure to check out the [official Elasticsearch keystore documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/elasticsearch-keystore.html) and the [Elastic Cloud specific documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-configuring-keystore.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you create Elasticsearch keystore settings, check the [official Elasticsearch keystore documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/elasticsearch-keystore.html) and the [Elastic Cloud specific documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-configuring-keystore.html).
```

## Example Usage

> These examples show how to use the resource at a basic level, so they work out the box and can be copied. The real utility of this resource will come when combined with other data providers, like vault or similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples show how to use the resource at a basic level, and can be copied. This resource becomes really useful when combined with other data providers, like vault or similar.
```

### Adding a new keystore setting to your deployment

```hcl
data "ec_stack" "latest" {
  version_regex = "latest"
  region        = "us-east-1"
}

# Create an Elastic Cloud deployment
resource "ec_deployment" "example_keystore" {
  region                 = "us-east-1"
  version                = data.ec_stack.latest.version
  deployment_template_id = "aws-io-optimized-v2"

  elasticsearch {}
}

# Create the keystore secret entry
resource "ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore" "secure_url" {
  deployment_id = ec_deployment.example_keystore.id
  setting_name  = "xpack.notification.slack.account.hello.secure_url"
  value         = "http://my-secure-url.com"
}

```

> ### Adding credentials to use GCS as a Snapshot repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding credentials to use GCS as a snapshot repository
```

> For up to date documentation on the `setting_name`, refer to the [ESS documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-gcs-snapshotting.html#ec-gcs-service-account-key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For up-to-date documentation on the `setting_name`, refer to the [ESS documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-gcs-snapshotting.html#ec-gcs-service-account-key).
```

```hcl
data "ec_stack" "latest" {
  version_regex = "latest"
  region        = "us-east-1"
}

# Create an Elastic Cloud deployment
resource "ec_deployment" "example_keystore" {
  region                 = "us-east-1"
  version                = data.ec_stack.latest.version
  deployment_template_id = "aws-io-optimized-v2"

  elasticsearch {}
}

# Create the keystore secret entry
resource "ec_deployment_elasticsearch_keystore" "gcs_credential" {
  deployment_id = ec_deployment.example_keystore.id
  setting_name  = "gcs.client.default.credentials_file"
  value         = file("service-account-key.json")
  as_file       = true
}
```

> ## Argument Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Argument reference
```

The following arguments are supported:

> * `deployment_id` - (Required) Deployment ID of the Deployment that holds the Elasticsearch cluster where the keystore setting will be written to. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `deployment_id` - (Required) Deployment ID of the deployment that holds the Elasticsearch cluster where the keystore setting is written to. 
```

* `setting_name` - (Required) Required name for the keystore setting, if the setting already exists in the Elasticsearch cluster, it will be overridden.
* `value` - (Required) Value of this setting. This can either be a string or a JSON object that is stored as a JSON string in the keystore.

> * `as_file` - (Optional) if set to `true`, stores the remote keystore setting as a file. The default is `false`, which stores the keystore setting as string when value is a plain string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `as_file` - (Optional) if set to `true`, it stores the remote keystore setting as a file. The default value is `false`, which stores the keystore setting as string when value is a plain string.
```

> ## Attributes Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attributes reference
```
